📖  Add detail guidelines for contributing guide including release and versioning process (#1170)
metal3-io/baremetal-operator: CONTRIBUTING.md

GitHub pull requests.

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [Certificate of Origin](#certificate-of-origin)
- [Finding Things That Need Help](#finding-things-that-need-help)
- [Versioning](#versioning)
  - [Codebase](#codebase)
    - [Backporting](#backporting)
- [Branches](#branches)
- [Contributing a Patch](#contributing-a-patch)
- [Backporting a Patch](#backporting-a-patch)
- [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes)
  - [Merge Approval](#merge-approval)
  - [Google Doc Viewing Permissions](#google-doc-viewing-permissions)
  - [Issue and Pull Request Management](#issue-and-pull-request-management)
  - [Commands and Workflow](#commands-and-workflow)
- [Release Process](#release-process)
  - [Exact Steps](#exact-steps)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Certificate of Origin

By contributing to this project you agree to the Developer Certificate of
Origin (DCO). This document was created by the Linux Kernel community and is a
simple statement that you, as a contributor, have the legal right to make the

> contribution. See the [DCO](DCO) file for details.

Author: Its not actually, it points to the DCO file in root and I am not changing it anyhow.

> contribution. See the [DCO](DCO) file for details.

Reviewer: I have checked the link, it is not working

## Finding Things That Need Help

If you're new to the project and want to help, but don't know where to start, we
have a semi-curated list of issues that
should not need deep knowledge of the system. [Have a look and see if anything
sounds interesting](https://github.com/metal3-io/baremetal-operator/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22).
Alternatively, read some of the docs on other controllers and try to write your
own, file and fix any/all issues that come up, including gaps in documentation!

## Versioning

### Codebase

Baremetal Operator doesn't follow release cadence and versioning of upstream Kubernetes semantic versioning. This codebase guarantees the following:

- A (*minor*) release CAN include:
  - Introduction of new API versions, or new Kinds.
  - Compatible API changes like field additions, deprecation notices, etc.
  - Breaking API changes for deprecated APIs, fields, or code.
  - Features, promotion or removal of feature gates.
  - And more!

- A (*patch*) release SHOULD only include backwards compatible set of bugfixes.

> These guarantees extend to all code exposed in our Go Module, including

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These guarantees extensions to all code exposed in our Go Module, including
```

*types from dependencies in public APIs*.
Types and functions not in public APIs are not considered part of the guarantee.

#### Backporting

We only accept backports of critical bugs, security issues, or bugs without easy workarounds, any
backport MUST not be breaking for either API or behavioral changes.

> We generally do not accept PRs against older release branches.

Reviewer 2: since for now we only have a "main" branch, this might confuse a reader. Either we have to remove it or make it clear that once we start having release branches in the future, backporting is the option we would have.

Reviewer 3: ++

## Branches

Baremetal Operator has only the *main* branch currently.

The goal is to have two types of branches in future: the *main* branch and *release-X* branches.

The *main* branch is where development happens. All the latest and
greatest code, including breaking changes, happens on main. Currently patch releases are done from this branch
only.

The *release-X* branches will contain stable, backwards compatible code. On every
major or minor release, a new branch will be created. It is from these
branches that minor and patch releases will be tagged. In some cases, it may
be necessary to open PRs for bugfixes directly against stable branches, but
this should generally not be the case.

## Contributing a Patch

> 1. If you haven't already done so, sign a Contributor License Agreement (see

Reviewer 2: Where is this referring to?

   details above).
1. Fork the desired repo, develop and test your code changes.
1. Submit a pull request.

> All code PR must be labeled with one of

Reviewer 3: I don't think most of us follow this and, while I find it useful, I'd not use "must" here.

- ⚠️ (`:warning:`, major or breaking changes)
- ✨ (`:sparkles:`, feature additions)
- 🐛 (`:bug:`, patch and bugfixes)
- 📖 (`:book:`, documentation or proposals)
- 🌱 (`:seedling:`, minor or other)

Individual commits should not be tagged separately, but will generally be
assumed to match the PR. For instance, if you have a bugfix in with
a breaking change, it's generally encouraged to submit the bugfix
separately, but if you must put them in one PR, mark the commit
separately.

All changes must be code reviewed. Coding conventions and standards are
explained in the official [developer
docs](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/contributors/devel).
Expect reviewers to request that you
avoid common [go style
mistakes](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/CodeReviewComments) in your PRs.

## Backporting a Patch

Baremetal Operator does not yet maintain branches other than `main`. However, in future there will be
release branches as well.

> For older versions through `release-X.Y` branches. We accept backports of bug fixes to the most recent

Reviewer 2: There seems to be a typo or first sentence looks incomplete to me

release branch. For example, if the most recent branch is `release-0.2`, and the
`main` branch is under active
development for v0.3.0, a bug fix that merged to `main` that also affects
`v0.2.x` may be considered for backporting
to `release-0.2`. We generally do not accept PRs against older release branches.

## Breaking Changes

Breaking changes are generally allowed in the `main` branch.

> There may be times, however, when `main` is closed for breaking changes. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There may be times, when `main` is closed for breaking changes. This
```

> is likely to happen as we near the release of a new minor version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is likely to happen as we are near to the release of a new minor version.
```

Breaking changes are not allowed in release branches, as these represent minor
versions that have already been released.
These versions have consumers who expect the APIs, behaviors, etc. to remain
stable during the life time of the patch stream for the minor release.

Examples of breaking changes include:

- Removing or renaming a field in a CRD
- Removing or renaming a CRD
- Removing or renaming an exported constant, variable, type, or function

> - Updating the version of critical libraries such as controller-runtime,

Reviewer 3: I assume, except for moving to a patch version?

Author: I didn't understand what you mean

Reviewer 3: 0.X.Y -> 0.X.(Y+1)?

Author: Yes, I will add it.

  client-go, apimachinery, etc.
- Some version updates may be acceptable, for picking up bug fixes, but
  maintainers must exercise caution when reviewing.

> There may, at times, need to be exceptions where breaking changes are allowed in
> release branches. These are at the discretion of the project's maintainers, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is possibility to have exceptions where breaking changes are allowed in
release branches. These are at the discretion of the project's maintainers, and
```
